Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We are now going to start looking at the VM native image, which as I mentioned before, it relies on
the default platform toolchain to compile your Java application into native executable binary.
In that way, the startup of your application becomes very fast.
The performance of your application of your Java application after compilation becomes very similar
to a C++ application, but we know that the developer developing a job application is much faster than
developing a C++ application because you don't need to worry about memory management, garbage collection,
this kind of stuff.
All right, gravel, VM, native image.
We can use VM to convert our Java code into a command line executable binary.
And when I say Java code, it means the class files, right?
Third class files because the VM.
Basically LLVM works on the class file, so you write your Java source code and then you use the Java
compiler to convert your application into the class file.
Right.
That's and then you can test it by running the JV.
And once your application is done, you've you finished testing.
Now you can invoke the native image from LLVM to compile your class files into an executable binary
album has the native image tool.
When you download it, you have to.
It doesn't come as a standard part of the VM.
You have to go ahead and download it.
Grohl VM provides a command line tools, so you have to manually install it in a starlet using a Google
Updater.
So Google Updater command line or juju.
So GEO is a command line tool that comes with the growl.
And again, the VM is essentially a JDK, which means it has a home directory and then a directory that
has all the Java or Java or C, etc., but it just has more extra development tools like the Google
Updater and then you can install Native Image.
So it's essentially something that is built on top of a JDK, right?
And I believe it comes with the open JDK version of the Java.
So you can download the free VM community edition.
So it has a free edition, which is Community Edition and then Enterprise Edition, which has a little
bit more features for our use cases.
In terms of just compiling our Java application to Native binaries, the community edition is definitely
enough, so you can just go to Google VMs, org forward slash downloads.
So let me just open it up here.
And as you can see, we have this community edition and then you want to click on the downloads and
gradle VM has binaries for any platform, Linux, Mac OS and Windows and for Linux X 64 architecture
and an ARM architecture is available for macOS.
Both x 64 and ARM is available because Apple switched to M1 processor, which are based on ARM architecture
for Windows only x 64, meaning Intel and CPU Intel and AMD architectures are available.
So you can click on download, but it says that if you are on Mac OS after you download it in the recent
version of the Mac OS like from Catalina and later you have to remove the quarantine attributes that
basically the Mac OS sets for untrusted files.
So when you download this, you want to copy and paste this to the terminal, basically pass to the
general VM folder, you have to substitute this and then sudo x attribute hyphen or hyphen dx compute
apple quarantine and then there all the VM folder.
Right?
So this is a little bit of so Mac OS in the recent version, it adds more security to the files, make
sure that the files are not malicious, etc..
So for example, let's say we want to download the and I recommend you basically download the JDK 17
version, which is like temp support.
It has a nice job of features.
So we're going to look at the macros AMD 64 and then click on the download.
It goes ahead and downloads it and then you just basically it's a zip folder, right?
And it's about 500 megabytes.
And then after that you unzip it and move it to your forward slash library, Java, Java, virtual machines.
Right.
So I'm going to wait for this to finish up.
So it's just a zip, zip file and you unzip it and move it there.
But before using it, you have to run this command line in macros if you are using Catalina or later
to make sure that the operating system doesn't flag these files as malicious.
Right.
You have to.
So I've already previously installed this, so I'm going to go to folder library, Java, Java, virtual
machines.
And as you can see, I have grabbed VM, Java 11 and VM Community Edition C Java 17 and it's very similar
to how the JDK so it starts with contents and then home and then it has a bean directory and then J
mod, these are obviously JDK modules, Java base, etc. So it's built on top of a JDK.
If you go to the bean, you see it just has extra, extra command line executables that are in addition
to the standard JDK.
So all these are a standard JDK, for example, Java, Java, Java, see, Java Dark, Java P, for
example, JSP cmd Java Command for Java Flight Recorder, GDB, Java Debugger, etc. But then we have
juju which is crawl, updater and base.
Using this geo, you can actually install more modules that are specific to VM, like the native image
oil.
For example, Python, you can use VMM, which is a Java virtual machine to execute Python scripts right
now.
Obviously, it's going to be a slower than if you just actually install the Python.
VM Remember, Python is also something that launches a virtual machine and executes your python code,
but then you can also interpret the Python scripts using VM.
And I believe it can benefit from the Git compilation that the VM provides because it's a JVM Java virtual
machine does come with the Git compiler, whereas Python virtual machine by default doesn't come with
any Git compiler.
It's always interpreted.
All right, so I'm going to go ahead and basically open up a terminal.
All right.
And then what we what you want to do is actually just like the Java home environment variable that we
set to this home directory, you can define a Google home environment variable.
So if I say echo Google home, draw, underscore home, it says library, Java, Java, virtual machines
grow VMS, community addition, Java 17 contents home.
So this directory, right.
And inside the directory, we know that there is a Bing directory.
So if I want to see which version of the JDK this home is from, I can say Google Home Crawl, underscore
home forward slash being forward slash, java hyphen, hyphen version.
And it tells me that the crawl VM, this version 17 Community Edition is built on top of the open JDK
17 So it's not the Oracle JDK, right?
So if I type Java hyphen, hyphen version, it tells me that it's the Java hot spot, which is the Oracle
VM.
And as I mentioned before, I've also defined the job of home.
So I've pointed my Java home environment variable to JDK 17, which is Oracle JDK and the Google home
is pointing to the LLVM Home Directory, right.
And then so basically and then I said that inside the Bean we have this crawl update here.
So what happens here is that if I say crawl home a slash being a slash juju hyphen hyphen version and
then it tells me that crawl VM updated and if you want to install native image you want to say go hyphen
install or hyphen hyphen install native dash image.
And so I think it doesn't have.
Yeah, let's see.
So okay, so we shouldn't add this hyphen hyphen and it tells me that.
So once you run this command, so you run the first time you download this, you have to install the
native image using the Google Updater and then the the to the action is install native image and then
it reaches the git repository.
Uh, it tells me that, uh, native image is already in style, so it knows that I have installed native
image, and it's already up to date.
So there is no, uh, no action.
No further action is required.
Right.
And then after that, obviously, the native image is put in the bin.
And in fact, if you look at these, these are not the actual files.
These are aliases or symbolic links, right?
In macros, we call them aliases in Windows.
We call them shortcut right to the operating system.
There is no difference between these.
Actually, we have two.
There is no to the operating system or to the terminal.
There is no difference between a symbolic link or a shortcut to a file and the file itself.
Because when if I drag and drop this, it tells me native image, right?
But this is a shortcut.
And if I say hyphen, hyphen version, basically the operating system on the terminal realizes that
this is a shortcut and it knows how to find it.
Right?
So if I right click show original, it tells me that the actual executable binary of the native image
is inside the VM contents home.
It's inside the lib and SVM.
SVM means sub VM or substrate VM substrate virtual machine and bean.
So it's there, right?
So I can drag and drop this and then hyphen hyphen version.
So the one, the native image, one that is inside the Bing directory or even global updated, right?
These are symbolic links or shortcuts, but to the operating system shortcuts and actual files, they're
the same thing, right?
That's the meaning of the symbolic link or an alias.
But for example, this Java one is actually the actual file right now.
What you can do, you can actually create aliases, for example, make alias, you can create an alias
or shortcut for this java and put it, for example, on the desktop on somewhere else.
And whenever I execute from there, it's going to basically use this one.
So I'm going to make an alias here.
Let's call it Java, underscore alias.
All right.
And then I'm going to drag it to my home directory.
So note that I didn't copy the file.
I basically created a alias.
This is a shortcut, right?
Then if I say Java alias, hyphen, hyphen, virgin, unknown command, java, underscore alias.
That's because I'm in the same directory.
So I have to use the dot java alias and is not executable by this user.
So C mod c mod plus x and in java underscore alias.
All right.
And now it's executable and I can say dot java alias.
A failure to execute process.
The file could not be run by the operating system, so you have to do a little bit more for this kind
of executable shortcuts.
But in general, you can create a symbolic link.
So I guess the mistake here is that using right click and making Alias, it only works mainly for directories
for files.
You kind of need to create a symbolic link, right?
And, and then use those.
Right.
So there is a difference between a symbolic link and the alias in macros.
Or the shortcut in Windows.
All right.
So, so now we have installed VM in macros in the future lectures.
I'll show you how to install VM and a native image in a in Windows and Linux.
Right.
So the idea here is that.
Um.
So we have this native image and then what we want to do is we're going to say that again, growl VM
and in a growl home slash been a slash native image and then hyphen hyphen version to make sure that
everything works fine.
We have the native image in stock.
All right, so back to PowerPoint, we installed the native image using the Google Updater.
The command is Google juju.
An install native dash image and it downloads the native image and puts their create a main class in
the Java project reads and passes the command line which we already created a project run native image
and domain class because we said that a class that has a main method is the entry point to the Java
application and then the native image tool can compile that class to an executable binary.
At the moment, Java eight, Java 11 are fully supported.
Actually, we have to say Java 11 and Java 17 are fully supported.
We can use Java 11 or Java 17 version of VM.
The suggestion is to use Java 17.
If Native image is not installed first, try to install it and there is the documentation or the reference
manual for the native image is here.
So native image, it has a very, very nice and detailed documentation.
Obviously in the course of these lectures I will walk you through all these documentation, point to
point out all the important topics, right?
So the native image builder or native image is a utility that processes all classes of an application
and their dependencies, including those from JDK.
It is static statically analyzes these data to determine which classes and methods are reachable during
the application execution, then it ahead of time compiles that reachable code.
This is the static compilation that I mentioned before and data to a native executable for a specific
operating system and architecture.
This entire process is called building an image or the image build time to clearly distinguish it from
the compilation of Java source code to bytecode, which creates the class files.
Right.
Using using a java compiler.
So install native image.
Native image can be added to the VM with the VM Updater or the geo command line tool and we set that
by default.
Native image is not included in Bing directory, but you can say you install native dash image and this
geo.
There is a symbolic link in the bing directory of the VM.
After this additional step, the native image executable will become available in the Java home slash
Bing directory.
And basically this Java home assumes that you're pointing your Java home also to the Bing director of
Google via my recommendation is that to additionally define this Google home slash mean so always use
Google home a slash bean so that you always indicate that.
You always indicate that this native image is actually part of the VM, not the actual JDK, for example,
Oracle JDK.
So hyphen hyphen version prerequisites.
So later I will show you.
And for example, if you try to install this on Linux, you kind of need to install a few extra libraries
that the native image requires to compile your Java application on OS.
Once you install the command line tools, everything comes by default.
So there is no additional thing is required.
So let's let's close this terminal.
Let's head back to our eclipse.
If you recall, we had this hello world application.
And then this had a dependency on the car and then a dependency on this machine.
These were in different directories, but none of these classes is part of a package.
And we said that if we open a terminal here.
And in my batch RC file, I've already, uh, defined a class path, right, for this project.
Test three directory test directory and test two.
So, and then let's just compile a Java application or Java application to make sure that it's up to
date.
Yes.
And it can find all the dependencies, car and in machine.
That's because Java looks at the class path.
And then we can also run the hell of all the class.
All the dependencies can be found.
Using the basically the class path, the environment variable for this particle application.
So everything is said.
Now I'm just going to quickly compile this application, note that I'm going to invoke the native image
on the hello world that has the main method, right?
So let's see, let's spread this.
So we're going to say growl home and then a slash being a slash native image and then we're going to
say hyphen C.P and then pass the environment variable class path.
Right.
And then hello world.
So and then terminal replaces this with all those directories and therefore native image, remember
native image is also on top of the JV team, right?
So it's associated with JVM.
So it has to know where to find the classes that your Java application needs to be to successfully run.
Right.
So it still works with the class path, right?
And then we run this, it starts the compilation.
The compilation has a couple of phases in the future.
Lectures I will show you and walk you through all the phases, all the details here.
But the first one is just gives you the information that it is able to successfully run the VM native
image command line tool.
And then it also gives you the version called VM 17 and then it tells you how many classes it needs
to successfully compile so that your application can run.
Building Universe Parsing Methods in Lightning Method.
This means the static compiler of the native which is trying to optimize method calls.
Right?
You know that in learning is easier and as you can see, it was pretty quick and it tells me that where
it actually puts the final executable.
Right.
So basically the idea here is that now we have this hello world and we know that in Mac and Linux we
have to say that because Hello World was put in our current working directory and it works.
As you can see this name which was based on the system property is null so we can say hello world and
then hyphen dx and name equals Bob and now name is Bob.
So once you compile your Java application to native executable binary, you can still use hyphen DX
system properties and your application still works fine because your application has a JVM embedded
in it.
Right?
But that doesn't mean that JVM is separate.
Everything has been compiled to a native executable binary.
Right.
And then the other thing is that we can also add command line arguments and all of them are going to
be here.
So all of these are command line arguments and your native executable binary differentiates between
the system parameters, the ones that start with hyphen DX and then the ones that don't start with high
end, which is very nice because then it gives you a degree of freedom so that you can quickly take
advantage of system that get property and then use these to configure your application and then the
command line arguments.
The rest are passed as this string array.
All right.
So I just want to again mention that if one of the strings that comes after your native executable binary,
right, it starts with hyphen de.
It's not going to be passed to this string array of the main method.
Right.
It's going to be passed to the system properties here and you have to access them using get property
and it already knows that it has to be a key value pair.
You specify the key equals value and it returns a string, which is value.
If the string comes out as null, it means that this value is not set for this key in the terminal right
at the time where we run our Java application.
So I hope you enjoyed this lecture and have an introduction to a native image in the future lectures.
I will give you more details, so please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.